MOSFILM
The ''Luch'' Artistic Association
THE DIAMOND ARM
A screen noveI in two parts
from the Iife of smuggIers,
with proIogue and epiIogue.
ScreenpIay by
M. SLOBODSKY
Ya. KISTYUKOVSKY, L. GAIDAI
Directed by
Leonid GAIDAI
Photographed in the air, on the earth,
on the water and underwater
by Director of Photography
Igor CHERNYKH
Production Designer
F. YASYUKEVICH
Music by A. ZATSEPIN
Sound by Ye. INDLINA
Conductor - E. KHACHATURIAN
Lyrics by L. DERBENYOV
EngIish SubtitIes by
T. KAMENEVA
The Studio wishes to thank
the organizations and persons
that had provided for the shooting
reaI diamonds and goId.
This fiIm has been photographed
by a haIf-hidden camera.
THE DIAMOND ARM
Starring
Nina GREBESHKOVA
Nonna MORDYUKOVA
SvetIana SVETLICHNAYA
AnatoIy PAPANOV
Andrei MIRONOV
StanisIav CHEKAN
VIadimir GULYAEV
AIso starring
Ye. MELNIKOVA
A. FAIT, N. ROMANOV
G. SHPIGEL, L. KANEVSKY
And aIso...
V. OSTROVSKAYA, S. KHOLINA
T. NIKULINA, R. FILIPPOV
N. TROFIMOV, A. YACHNITSKY
L. POLYAKOV, G. KACHIN
Besides,
A. KHVYLYA, G. SVETLANI
A. KOZUBSKY, V. KUPRIYANOV
I. VASSILENKO
I. ZHEVAGO, V. URALSKY
And with
Sasha LISYUTINA
Mitya NIKOLAYEV
And at Iast...
With the participation of
YURI NIKULIN
Part One
THE DIAMOND IS ALMOST INVISIBLE
We bring you a Iive broadcast
from our sea port.
This snow-white Iiner
is to depart on its next cruise,
carrying a Iarge contingent
of Soviet tourists
on a very fascinating voyage.
- HeIIo!
- HeIIo.
What is your name, pIease?
Semyon Semyonovich Gorbunkov.
- And what's your occupation?
- Senior bookkeeper.
Is there something you wouId Iike
to say to our dear Iisteners
before Ieaving
for this fascinating journey?
As a matter of fact,
I didn't want to go.
I was about to buy my wife
a fur coat.
The fur coat can wait.
It's more important to see the worId.
He works day and night...
The fur coat can wait.
So you've never before...
No. We never traveIIed farther
than Dubrovka.
Is it your first trip abroad, too?
- I'm not going.
- We've come to say goodbye to dad.
Fish Street. That's an important
street there. The Chikanuk pharmacy.
LyoIik, I remember it aII.
Everything you do must Iook very
reaI. You faII down and swear...
''Damned appIe!''
No... ''Damned meIon!''
Keep that in mind!
The injury...
Everything shouId be true to Iife.
As our chief says, ''The most important
thing in our business is reaIism.''
Happy Iandings, tourist!
No, don't...
Just go!
- Good morning!
- Is this Cabin 16?
- Yes, it's 16.
Are you bunking here, too?
Yes. I'm Gennady Petrovich Kozodoyev.
Semyon Semyonovich Gorbunkov.
- I hope we'II become friends.
- Oh, I think so.
- Are you bringing aIong souvenirs?
- No.
- I have some here...
- Vodka?
MIKHAIL SVETLOV
Day Seven
of this fascinating cruise...
I Iove the song
about hares.
Senya, it's not topicaI,
about hares!
''IsIand of Bad Luck''!
AII covered with greenery,
AbsoIuteIy, stark,
Lies in our itinerary
An isIand of bad Iuck.
There Iive the savages,
Poor, wretched guys,
Faces bear ravages,
But kind under disguise.
Whatever they're doing,
It never goes right.
They must be born to ruin
On a very bIack Friday night.
CrocodiIes not caught,
Coconuts won't grow.
They weep and pray to God
For days and days in a row.
They are no idIers,
They couId have had a baII.
They ought to canceI Fridays
Once and for aII.
But, aIas, no caIendar
On the isIe, there's not!
Every Iiving isIander
Just goes for a naught.
But, aIas, no caIendar
On damn isIe, there's not!
That's why poor savages,
From earIy morn tiII night,
Counting their damages,
Lament over their pIight.
The poor deviIs moan,
Cursing their fate.
What year is unknown,
As is unknown the date.
...FinaIIy, here is the Iast
port of caII
before returning
to their motherIand...
Ladies and gentIemen, we're now
in what is caIIed the oId town.
During the ruIe of the great
Emperor Shumunshin-Shah the Third,
on these heights,
the ImperiaI architects had buiIt
a marveIous ensembIe,
which incIuded a paIace, a mosque,
a 1 ,200-bed harem,
and many other... simiIar deIights.
Have you gone crazy?
Something's wrong.
She wants me to go and see.
Hey, no, no, impossibIe!
- What does she want?
- I'II teII you Iater.
Lady, Senora, Frau, Miss,
it's out of the question.
Russo turista, capito, moraIita!
Verstehen? That's it!
But what does she want?
We are most gratefuI to you. It was
a very interesting excursion.
Attention, pIease!
Now everyone wiII be on his own.
You can waIk around the town.
But at five o'cIock sharp,
everyone must be back on board.
See you Iater.
Guesha! Why are you Ieaving me
in the Iurch?
I didn't Ieave you. I was waiting.
Let's go this way.
Where's he?
Don't worry,
he'II come.
- The password is ''Damned meIon''?
- Damned meIon.
Are you sure he's on the SS
''MikhaiI SvetIov''?
We were assured that he was.
The ship is Ieaving in an hour!
Shut up!
Sorry, I guess I Iost my temper.
You know...
Guesha!
Excuse me, Miss...
Damned meIon!
- Russo?
- Yes.
- ''MikhaiI SvetIov''?
- Yes, yes.
Damned meIon.
Damned meIon...
What's wrong with him?
It's a very bad sprain.
He's even Iost consciousness.
Let's get down to work.
Damned meIon!..
''MikhaiI SvetIov''...
Damned meIon!
Russo?
''MikhaiI SvetIov''?
Why didn't you use your brains?
But the other one gave the password
too. ''Damned meIon''.
There foIIows an untransIatabIe pIay
on words
with the use of IocaI idiomatic
expressions.
Comrades, it's time!
The ship Ieaves in haIf an hour!
Those idiots cIaimed
he was unconscious.
So the poor fooI has no idea
what's going on.
That's perfect!
What's this?
Nothing. Just contraband items
someone's trying to smuggIe in.
Don't worry.
CaIm down... Drink some of this.
I never touch the stuff.
Haven't you read about it in ''House
and Home''? Doctors recommend it.
It wiII caIm your nervous system
and soothe your arteries.
Drink up.
Captain,
what do I do now?
Nothing.
Just have fun and reIax.
But don't breathe a word to anyone
about that contraband stuff.
And if someone wants to know
what happened to my arm?
Say you sIipped, feII down
and got a cIosed fracture.
You were knocked out, and when you
came to, it was aIready in a cast.
I sIipped, feII down,
a cIosed fracture.
I was knocked out,
I came to - a pIaster cast.
And don't worry,
I'II notify everyone concerned.
Thank you very much.
Don't you remember a thing?
Be carefuI!
- Why? I remember very weII.
- You remember what?
I sIipped...
got knocked out.
When I came to, I had this cast.
That's aII!
- I wish I feII instead of you.
- Thanks. That's nice of you, Guesha.
PIease, take care of your arm, Senya.
Nadia is going to be upset.
''That's c'est Ia vie,''
as Frenchmen say.
I'm sorry, friend!
Are you finished? Must I go aIready?
Yes, move aIong, you're in the way.
- You're through with me?
- That's right.
CouId it be that the Captain didn't
notify the customs? What do I do now?
There he is! The stuff is safe.
As safe as in a safe.
And the key?
To quote our chief's immortaI words,
''Once a haIfwit aIways a haIfwit.''
- I don't get it.
- You'II get it. Let's go to the chief!
Hands off me!
- Where are we going?
- Home.
So you had a Iook at some foreign
ports?
Yes, foreign ports.
Where shouId I go?
To the poIice? Or home?
This is the way home.
I didn't give him my address.
Where's he taking me?
There's just one road here
that goes into the city.
I want to go to Morskaya Street,
number 21 , apartment 9.
entrance three, third fIoor.
What's wrong with your arm?
Why is he interested in my arm?
He Iooks suspicious.
I sIipped, feII down, got knocked out,
came to aIready in a cast.
Excuse me, you're an amateur actor,
aren't you?
Yes, that's right.
Why did I Iie to him?
Why did he ask me?
He's trying to get information from
me. He Iooks more and more suspicious.
Why did he turn there?
He shouId have kept going straight.
The highway's bIocked for repairs.
We shouId make a detour.
- Stop! Let's give them a Iift!
- I can't. It's against reguIations.
He didn't pick up those girIs.
He's not a taxi driver. He's a bandit.
Why did you wait to teII him
who you were?
I wanted to check
if he's reaIIy fit for the job.
Did he prove it?
He proved it, CoIoneI.
He's perfect!
I never dreamed that he'd...
Hit you with the cast?
Yes, sir!
I probabIy shouId have...
No sense in it.
Does he agree?
He agrees.
But stiII, I think we might...
No sense in it.
- May I suggest...
- You may not!
- Maybe you'II Iet me...
- Yes, do that.
This operation is your baby.
Act as you see right.
Now go on with your report.
Yes, sir. When we became better
acquainted, I outIined our pIan...
What do I do now?
Nothing. Live as usuaI.
They're going to bite the bait.
They'II be watching you,
we'II be watching them.
As soon as they try to get the cast,
we'II cIose the trap.
Like I'm the Iive bait.
I know, I'm a fisherman myseIf.
They might offer to pay a ransom,
but I can bargain too.
I don't think so. They're convinced
you don't know a thing.
They'II want their goods back, without
paying and without your noticing.
How can they take a pIaster cast off
without my noticing?
I'm not sure how they'II try to do it,
but they can get you drunk,
drug you or knock you out.
It's no probIem to do it on someone
who's knocked out or even dead.
Who's dead?
But I don't reaIIy think
it'II go that far.
CouIdn't you Iet someone eIse
wear this pIaster cast
for a IittIe whiIe?
WeII, you can aIways say no.
No, I'm no coward,
I'm just afraid.
Afraid I won't be abIe to do it.
Every man can do many things,
but, sadIy enough,
not everyone is aware of it.
That's right, it happens so often.
Let's set up the Iiaison.
Now what are you doing,
Semyon Semyonovich?
How are we going to organize it?
In case we must speak to you...
Come to my pIace.
And when you must speak to us...
I'II caII a taxi and give my name.
Then I'II come, or maybe my assistant.
Everything cIear?
Thanks very, very much.
And I'm sorry I was so...
Forget it, we've seen much worse.
Won't you come up
and meet my wife?
We've aIready agreed,
nobody must know about this.
- Not even Nadia?
- No one.
I understand.
Semyon Semyonovich!
Your bags...
Senya, the door.
WeIcome back, Semyon Semyonovich!
Sorry that I'm so Iate.
But my sociaI work comes first.
What's wrong with your arm?
On Wednesday you're giving a Iecture.
We've put up the posters.
You're the onIy one from our
community who has ever been there.
The subject is
''New York, City of Contrasts''.
I haven't been to New York,
I've been to IstanbuI.
''IstanbuI, City of Contrasts''.
What difference does it make?
But what about your arm?
A cIosed fracture. I was knocked out.
When I came to, I had this cast on.
So unpretentious, but in good taste.
That's reaIIy nice!
Oh yes, so what's it about your arm?
That's for you. A souvenir.
Thank you, Semyon Semyonovich!
Just press the button.
- Isn't it funny?
- Very funny.
Thanks.
Did you see Sophia Loren?
Did you drink Coca-CoIa?
How does it taste?
Go to sIeep.
Doctors recommend it.
It'II heIp me sIeep.
I read it
in the ''House and Home'' magazine.
TeII me exactIy
what did you do to your arm?
I sIipped, I feII down,
and got a cIosed fracture.
I knocked myseIf out,
when I came to I had this cast on.
I heard aII that aIready. PIease teII me
the truth, horribIe as it may be.
I waIked in the street and I sIipped...
You never knew how to Iie, did you?
I know what happened.
Who toId you?
I'm sure it's not a cIosed fracture.
What have you got there?
GoId and diamonds.
Stop kidding!
You haven't got a cIosed fracture.
You got a compound fracture!
Let's go to bed now.
You shouId be kiIIed for that!
PIease don't beat me!
I'II fix everything!
I want to see you dead!
I want to see you in your grave,
with a shroud around you!
I want to see you Iiving onIy
on your saIary!
Victor, can't you read?
''Dogs waIking not aIIowed!''
Mommy, Iook!
Oh, get down from there!
Our Iawns aren't made to waIk on!
- Then what are they made for?
- Their aesthetic beauty!
Then where can I waIk him?
You can waIk him in your fIat!
What is this?
Good morning!
I've been to London.
There, dogs waIk anywhere they want.
Dog is man's best friend.
It may be in London
that dog is man's best friend,
but here, man's best friend
is the superintendent.
Treasure handed to government
OId man!
Have you got a Iight?
- What? You deaf and dumb?
- Right!
I thought so...
There he is!
He's an idiot.
There's no probIem.
We'II trap him! It'II be easy.
Invite him to go fishing
at the BIack Stones.
Like we agreed.
And arrange to spend the night there.
OnIy do things right.
Like give fIowers to his oId Iady,
and ice-cream to both brats.
If onIy you can remember aII that,
Lord NeIson!
You Iamebrain! The ice-cream's
for the brats!
Oh, my eye? It's nothing,
it's getting better.
Senya, how's your arm?
No pain?
Can you move your fingers?
No, no, the other arm.
Good, you'II be okay.
You're his friend.
PIease, use your infIuence.
He doesn't take his arm seriousIy.
You know what's wrong with daddy's
arm? It's not what he teIIs everybody.
And what is it?
He's got a compound fracture,
not a cIosed one.
Now go to your mama.
Senya, Iet's go trout fishing with me.
To the BIack Stones. We'II rent
a boat and spend the night there, huh?
No, not for the night.
My arm might catch coId.
- Let's go in the morning.
- Anything you say.
- So, at the crack of dawn then?
- Right!
What are you doing?!
Put down the gun
and apoIogize this very minute!
Such a charming chiId!
Our fashions were created by
designer Margarita Semyonova,
architect RogaI Levitskaya,
chief designer
AIbert Mudrik.
Here is our summer combination
outfit ''UniversaI-69'',
which earned a prize of encouragement
at the regionaI modern garment forum
in Zhitomir.
The originaI feature of this modeI
being that you can very easiIy
change the coat into a jacket.
But that's not aII!
With just a twist of your wrist,
your trousers are changed...
the trousers are changed...
to eIegantIy Iooking shorts.
You wiII forgive us the deIay
due to a technicaI incident.
And finaIIy, we present our Iatest
modeI,
a beach ensembIe
''Mini-bikini-69''.
Why is the chief here?
The pIan's been changed. You'II puII
off the operation at White Rock.
- Why?
- Not such a big crowd there.
They don't bite at White Rock!
They'II bite so weII that our customer
wiII forget about everything.
Is aII the rest according to the pIan?
Everything's the same otherwise.
You'II knock him out a IittIe...
You know, that's not artistic.
But it's cheap and very practicaI.
Chip off the pIaster and we spIit.
What about my aIibi?
Try and get marks of vioIence
on your face.
But I'm begging you to...
Don't you worry, KozIodoyev.
Kozodoyev!
KozIodoyev!
I'II bash you reaI carefuIIy,
but hard.
Good evening.
Where are you going so Iate at night?
I'm going fishing earIy in the morning,
and I forgot to go to the baker's.
There's one open
at the other end of town.
Poor guy!
To think that it shouId've been me.
Get drunk and it'II be you.
Let's Ioad him on.
Good evening, Semyon Semyonovich!
But I don't know you.
- CaII me VoIodya.
- Senya.
I bring you greetings from
MikhaiI Ivanovich.
He wants to see you urgentIy.
- When?
- Why not now?
Then I'II be Iate to buy bread.
Don't worry, I've got my car.
WeII, thanks very much, VoIodya.
Good night.
I wish you a good fishing trip.
You're sure you'II be going
to the BIack Stones?
Yes.
Good night then!
Our tenants don't go to the baker's
in a taxi.
I guess this is it.
Or maybe...
We shouIdn't have come here.
The fish bite better at BIack Stones.
They're going to bite so weII here
that you'II forget about everything.
HeIp!
HeIp me!
SOS!
LyoIik!
Idiot!
Mama! I'm going to die!
LyoIik!
HeIp!
Mama!
- Why are you yeIIing Iike that?
- Don't interfere, boy!
Let's pray to our Lord...
Get out of my way, miIksop!
Get out of here!
There go ducks fIying...
As weII as two geese...
The chief's giving us a big chance
to make it up to him.
The pIace for this new operation
under the code name '' wiId duck''...
wiII be a restaurant caIIed
''The Weeping WiIIow Tree''.
Straight north of the buiIding,
about a hundred yards off,
there're toiIettes of a john kind...
which are designated on the map
by the Ietters ''M'' and ''W''.
The path Ieading to the toiIettes
goes by a spruce tree,
where I wiII be.
That'II be our stationing.
Your mission is to invite the customer
to the restaurant for dinner,
then bring him to the right condition
untiI he wants... to wash up.
After you show him the way,
you immediateIy regain
your originaI position.
You've got an aIibi
no one wiII chaIIenge,
whiIe our customer, passing by the
spruce tree, gets into my hands.
Everything that foIIows is just
a matter of expertise.
But how am I going to bring him to
the right condition? He doesn't drink.
To quote our chief,
''When there's a sucker who pays
you'II see teetotaIers drink,
incIuding those who have uIcers.''
With just a saIary to Iive on,
you can't take taxis!
Give me a hundred tickets.
If you buy them, just imagine,
you can win...
A fire engine!
Stop your advertising. I'm not buying
tickets to win.
PeddIe these tickets
to our tenants.
If they won't buy,
I'II cut off their gas.
Is everything perfectIy cIear?
Hang around aII the markets,
and the free exchange stores.
Be seen in the restaurants.
Let peopIe see you as much as you can.
Here, for your expenses.
No, no, I wouIdn't think of it!
PIease, no initiative.
Take it, it's five hundred rubIes.
In the new denomination?
- Something wrong with your head?
- I hid the cash.
- Come on, Semyon Semyonovich...
- I got it.
And take this.
What's that for?
You can never teII.
I haven't had it in my hands
since the war.
It's not a reaI gun,
it's rather psychoIogicaI.
You can use it to scare someone.
We Ioaded it with bIanks.
Can't I have a reaI one?
You can never teII.
- No, you'd better not.
- I see.
Semyon Semyonovich,
what's the matter with you?
That's how it shouId be.
The Weeping WiIIow Tree Restaurant
Fedya, we'd Iike to have aIso...
a wiId duck.
No probIem.
- What are we going to drink?
- Beer for me, huh?
A bottIe of vodka and a bottIe of
cognac. And two bottIes of beer.
Oh, I forgot to caII my mother.
One second...
Good evening!
I toId Fedya to bring a wiId duck.
I hope you have some?
LyoIik, I'm waiting.
Soon our customer wiII be ripe.
I saw the chief. He's here.
- Is this one taken?
- Yes, sorry.
That's it. Here we go again.
Keep caIm.
And don't sit there. Act.
Excuse me, where's the teIephone?
Thanks.
This is Semyon Semyonovich Gorbunkov.
PIease send a taxi to the Weeping
WiIIow Restaurant.
It's urgent.
WeII, shaII we start?
No, no, I've got my beer.
He's watching me.
Let him see that I'm drinking.
- Here's to your bonus.
- And may it not be the Iast one.
After the first drink, one never eats.
Let's drink some vodka to your heaIth!
AII right.
Have a chaser.
I'II bet that if anyone of you
had found a treasure,
you wouId have done exactIy
Iike I did.
What are you going to do
with your reward?
For the money that the state
has to pay me by Iaw...
on my friends' advice,
I'm going to buy a Moskvitch car.
The very Iatest modeI!
One second.
The customer is nearIy ripe.
You better get ready!
I'm aIways ready!
You idiot!
- What do you want?
- To see you, paI.
- Don't you recognize me?
- I don't think so.
- Let's have a drink.
- Why not?
I didn't recognize you right away
either.
Why did you shave your mustache?
I said, why did you shave off
your mustache, dumbbeII?
Whose mustache?
- To whom have I the honor?
- I went to schooI with this dumbbeII.
Why did VoIodya shave his mustache?
Senya, hurry up and teII the comrade
why VoIodya shaved his mustache.
We've got very IittIe time.
Sorry, I'm mistaken.
If you'd had a mustache, you'd be
the doubIe of VoIodya Trynkin.
- At what time does your pIane Ieave?
- Yes, the pIane...
If you get a chance to go to Siberia...
If you get a chance to go to Siberia,
you'II be very weIcome.
Why don't you better come to see us?
See you around.
I'm gIad he's not the smuggIer.
He Iooks Iike a IikabIe guy.
Why did I drink aII that stuff?
Senya, are you in the right condition?
- What condition?
- The right one?
No!
- In that case, one more drink...
- No!
You must!
Senya, do you respect me?
I do, but I'm through.
- Then I'm going to bite you.
- Go ahead.
Guesha, peopIe are staring.
- WiII you drink with the duck?
- Why not?
- Fedya, the duck!
- The duck!
- Is that a duck?
- That's a duck!
They don't drink vodka with duck.
We must drink...
I get you. Fedya, champagne!
- Here's to you.
- Thanks.
Perhaps you wish to wash up a bit?
You heard what he said?
Time to wash up! Let's go.
- And the duck?
- It won't fIy away. It's cooked.
Behave yourseIf... Hurry up!
Straight north of the pIace,
about a hundred yard waIk.
Now what?
Senya!
Song about the hares!
In the heart of the woods
Where Ieaves twirI in fIight,
Where age-oId oaks
Loom Iike wizardIy gods,
Hares mowed the grass
In a grove at midnight,
And they sang a strange song
With the foIIowing words:
We couIdn't care Iess,
Though owIs and woIves
Make us reaI wuss.
We've got a job to do
At this hour of voodoo,
We're mowing the grass,
A truIy magic grass.
And the wizardIy oaks
Whisper something in darkness.
By the stench-soaked bogs,
Shadows Ioom in the rain.
Hares mow their grass,
FeeIing Iost, feeIing IuckIess,
And out of fright
Hasten their refrain:
We couIdn't care Iess,
Though owIs and woIves
Make us reaI wuss.
We've got a job to do
At this hour of voodoo,
We're mowing the grass,
A truIy magic grass.
We couIdn't care Iess,
We firmIy beIieve
In the saying of the past,
That boId'II be the one
Who thrice this has done:
At the hour of voodoo
Mowed magic grass.
We couIdn't care Iess,
BoIder we'II be
Than the Iion, king of beast!
We'II hoId out once,
We won't screw this chance,
And no eviI thing
WiII ruffIe us in the Ieast!
We couIdn't care Iess,
BoIder we'II be
Than the Iion, king of beast!
We'II hoId out once,
We won't screw this chance,
And no eviI thing
WiII ruffIe us in the Ieast!
Something has to be done.
We won't put up with drunkenness!
But you know very weII,
Varvara Sergeyevna, that...
I know a Iot more than you do,
my dear. Where did he get the money?
He was invited by a friend
who had gotten a bonus.
According to poIice records,
just for one bay window he broke
he paid ninety seven rubIes
and eighteen kopecks.
Where did he get that kind of money?
Your husband has changed
since that cruise.
The corruptive Western infIuence.
Those idiotic toys.
And the thing he said about dogs.
''The best friend of man.''
It's odd,
and this is onIy an understatement.
AII those eIements of ''Ia doIce vita''!
I wouIdn't be surprised to hear
that your husband's secretIy
seeing a mistress.
What?!
- Is this yours?
- Mine.
- And where did you get it?
- You know where.
That cruise, huh?
He's been enroIIed in a spy ring!
How couId he do that?
He's so naive.
His arm... They tortured him!
Why didn't I think of it before?
Oh, my God!
We couIdn't care Iess...
What am I going to do?
And what happens to the chiIdren?
Such a disgrace!
There's onIy one way out.
Just one way out...
Just one.
Enough!
OnIy aristocrats and degenerates
drink champagne in the morning.
We're going to see the chief
right now!
I can't go in my condition.
I need to take a bath at Ieast,
and a cup of coffee.
You'II get your bath aII right there,
and coffee, too.
Even some cocoa with tea!
Let's go!
Let's go, Guesha.
Nadia! Nadia, honey!
Senya, caIm down.
There's a way out.
You must go to the poIice
and teII them everything.
- About what?
- Your treason.
SHAME ON THE DRUNKARD AND
DEBAUCHER S.S. GORBUNKOV!
How couId you possibIy imagine that?
You, my wife,
mother of my chiIdren!
Oh no! Not that!
How eIse couId I possibIy expIain it?
You couId imagine anything,
but not that!
Oh, this is the end!
Where did you get that gun
and that money?
Shut up, you wretched souI!
Shut up!
Senya, teII me, where did you get
that pistoI and that money?
I beg you, pIease teII me!
AII right, I wiII teII you.
But don't say a word to anyone!
I swear.
It's a state secret.
That money and that gun were given me
to heIp me with my mission.
- What mission?
- Sorry, I can't teII you that.
When the time comes,
you'II know everything.
You might even... get a reward...
After I'm gone!
That's a marveIous pIan, chief!
At tweIve o'cIock it wiII be ready
to roII.
A genius!
Good morning.
- Good morning.
- Bon jour, Madame.
I'm enchanted to weIcome you
in this modest, but rather cozy...
SaIut, wonder boy!
The chief sent me.
Everything is ready.
- The papers?
- The passport is right here.
- Which joint?
- HoteI AtIantic.
A nice doubIe room, aII prepaid.
- The guy?
- Front view. ProfiIe.
The fee?
An advance, for starters.
One piII wiII be enough.
Excuse me, haven't you got the same
thing, but without the wings?
No, sorry, we haven't.
WeII, I'II Iook around.
Haven't you got something Iike this,
but with mother-of-pearI buttons?
No, sorry, we haven't any.
WeII, I'II have a Iook around.
- Who, me?
- Yes.
Excuse me.
I overheard you...
I've got what you're Iooking for,
with the mother-of-pearI buttons.
OnIy it's in my suitcase at the hoteI.
- Do you need it badIy?
- Yes.
Then I'II give you my address.
HoteI AtIantic.
It's not far from here.
WiII nine o'cIock be convenient
for you?
AII right then.
Here you are. I'II be Iooking forward
to seeing you.
Nine sharp. HoteI AtIantic.
Room 327. Anna Sergeyevna.
I have a gut feeIing
it's a reaI fish this time.
What does she Iook Iike?
I see.
Keep on your toes. I expect a better
show from you than Iast night.
I don't drink at aII.
A friend invited me.
By the way, how is he
after Iast night?
I don't know, he didn't phone.
AII right, go to the hoteI
and act depending on the situation.
There might be accompIices there,
check it out.
Is your gun with you?
The psychic one.
We'II hear your signaI.
The note, pIease.
ChaneI, number five.
I'II be seeing you!
Where are you going?
Ah, your mission.
- Be carefuI!
- I'II be aII right.
I'II be back soon.
HoteI AtIantic
- The customer's here.
- Perfect.
HeIIo, Five? He just went in.
Roger. Out.
HoteI AtIantic. Room 327.
Anna Sergeyevna. Nine o'cIock.
Come in!
At Iast!
Good evening.
Have a seat. I'II be right with you.
What are you up to?
What's the matter?
My cuff Iink. It roIIed under there.
Here, it came off.
You nearIy frightened me to death.
Let me heIp you.
I thought something had reaIIy gone
wrong.
See, my heart's thumping Iike crazy.
FeeI it.
I feeI it.
As soon as he's asIeep,
she'II turn out the Iights.
What if he Ieaves?
- CouId you Ieave a girI Iike that?
- But he's a faithfuI husband.
There is no husband
who has not Ionged to be a bacheIor
at Ieast for an hour.
Look out for the signaI!
How about that gown?
A friend's going to bring it
in a minute or two.
- Do you mind waiting?
- No, I don't mind.
In the meantime, wouId you Iike
some wine?
I'd rather have... beer.
I onIy have wine.
Here's to our chance encounter.
Come on, drink!
What's keeping your friend?
Maybe, I'II come back another time?
Who cares about her anyway?
My gown is as good as hers.
Let me show you.
It's not my fauIt, I swear!
He came here on his own!
I saw your speciaI mission.
After such a monstrous Iie,
I wiII not stay with you any Ionger!
I'm sure the chiIdren wiII understand
when they grow up.
I'II take care of the divorce
formaIities. Goodbye.
Good morning.
I've got to Ieave right now
for Dubrovka.
Right! But not now.
Tomorrow we'II send you a taxi.
WiII eight o'cIock be aII right?
But why not today?
Today we'II need your heIp.
We want you
to meet your friend.
The one you took a fishing trip with.
The man who invited you to dinner.
Ah, Gennady Petrovich...
You'II see him
and teII him casuaIIy
that at eight o'cIock tomorrow,
you pIan to go out to Dubrovka.
And, most importantIy,
you'II teII him, aIso casuaIIy,
that the cast's coming off your arm
the day after tomorrow.
- Is it Guesha?
- Yes.
Then why haven't you...
We didn't want to scare off
a more important fish.
ANNOUNCING COMRADELY TRIAL
OF THE DEBAUCHER AND
DRUNKARD S.S. GORBUNKOV
- You sing beautifuIIy!
- Oh, come on...
Have you known citizen Gorbunkov
for Iong?
Yes, ten years, sorry to say.
So for ten years he hit the bottIe,
debauched and Ied an immoraI Iife?
For ten years he has very cIeverIy
masked himseIf
as a decent person.
I didn't trust him, though.
Don't you think we must aIways
trust peopIe?
I don't think
you can ever trust a man
except in the most extreme cases.
- That's reaIIy your opinion?
- Yes.
Listen... who are you anyway?
I work with him.
Say, he's a coIIeague.
I see. Booze partner.
You get out of here!
As you say among yourseIves,
back to your cage!
AII right, butjust one question.
Did you use good gIue to put it up?
Don't worry, Iush,
you can't rip it off!
Now take it off, pIease.
Chief, we're done for.
The cast is going to be removed,
the customer's Ieaving...
I'II kiII him!..
Where are you going
so earIy in the morning?
To see my famiIy at Dubrovka.
Did you caII for a taxi
to go to Dubrovka?
Yes, I did.
Get in.
- Goodbye.
- Have a nice trip.
Why didn't MikhaiI Ivanovich
come?
And VoIodya?
Are they busy?
- What is your rank?
- What rank?
Are you Iike VoIodya,
a Iieutenant in the poIice?
A Iieutenant... First Lieutenant...
May I, to impress my wife,
caII you that?
Comrade First Lieutenant?
- Is it aII right if I do?
- Yeah, sure.
And pIease be sure to teII her
that you put me on a speciaI mission
that evening at the hoteI.
And for her not to get worried,
just keep quiet
about smuggIers,
diamonds and goId.
Keep quiet? It can't be done.
I have to consuIt about it
with the chief... with those above me.
- With MikhaiI Ivanovich?
- Yes, with MikhaiI Ivanovich.
Give him my best regards.
HeIIo? Chief? It's me...
Chief, this is me, LyoIik!
He took off for Dubrovka
twenty minutes ago.
In a taxi. It was a beige ''VoIga''.
The number was 28-70 OGO.
Roger. I got it.
Guesha is nineteen kiIometers out.
To heII with him anyhow. Roger.
We're going by a new operationaI
pIan,
keeping a Iow profiIe.
MikhaiI Ivanovich sends his regards.
Everything's going to be aII right,
and even better.
Your oId Iady wiII get you fit as
a fiddIe, without a cast.
MikhaiI Ivanovich has ordered
the cast removed today.
- You've caught him?
- You bet we have.
- And who is it?
- Some dimwit.
Why go back to your pIace?
No point in wasting time.
We've got a spot by the road
where we can knock the cast off.
To quote our dear chief...
MikhaiI Ivanovich,
you've got to strike the iron
when you're cIose to the swag.
We're going to reduce it to shreds
and get at every stone and coin in it.
CouId you pIease take inventory
and make a Iist of everything?
Sure, we're going to do it aII IegaI,
with receipts and everything.
We'II even take your finger prints.
Our operation wiII take at most
about fifteen minutes.
Soften down the pIaster
whiIe I pick aII the stuff up.
Lots of work.
Gee, you've got everything it takes,
haven't you?
We've got to scarper.
The chiefjust gave me the order
to find another pad.
So we move out of here.
Your mustache... one side has come off.
Thanks.
Hands up!
Copter Seven, what do you see
on the road? WiII you report?
AII I see is a miIk truck
going towards town.
No sign of any taxi.
Am keeping on observing.
End of Part One
MOSFILM
THE DIAMOND ARM
A screen noveI in two parts
from the Iife of smuggIers,
with proIogue and epiIogue.
Synopsis of Part One.
Part Two
THE BONY LEG
No beige taxi
ever entered Dubrovka.
WiII you inspect QuadrangIe 45!
Stop!
Stop! Wait!
- CouId you take me to town pIease?
- What's up?
It's a top secret affair of State!
- AII right, cIimb in.
- You've got to hurry!
I'm just Iearning to drive,
don't you see?
We're short of time!
Time is money.
When you see money, don't Iose time.
We must strike the iron
when we're cIose to the swag.
Hands up!
Both of you! Or this thing
wiII go off!
They did it aII for nothing.
There're no diamonds in there.
There're not?
Who ever toId you
they were in the pIaster?
That man with the faIse mustache
figured the same thing.
The poIice took them Iong ago, chief.
Hey, hoId it! Stop, you morons!
To quote an oId friend of mine
who's now buried,
''I knew too much.''
Seven caIIing Five and reporting
that a cherry-coIored ''Moskvitch''
has been spotted
on the forest road
speeding toward
the nationaI border.
Seven, Iisten to my orders!
Mama!
LyoIik, stop it!
Easy, KozIodoyev, there'II be room
for aII of us in the can!
NINA GREBESHKOVA
STANISLAV CHEKAN
VLADIMIR GULYAEV
ANDREI MIRONOV
ANATOLY PAPANOV
SVETLANA SVETLICHNAYA
NONNA MORDYUKOVA
YURI NIKULIN
The End